Much of this information is actually taken from Chapter 2. Details may be particular to Unix ELF binaries.

#### In binaries, why are data and code separated into different sections?
Separating them allows them to be given different permissions. Variables (i.e. data) need to be writeable, but executable sections (i.e. code) should normally be read-only in order to prevent an attacker from overwriting them and changing their behavior.  

#### How does the loading process differ for code and data sections?
The main code is stored in .text (flagged read-only and executable). Constants are stored in .rodata/.rdata (read-only), although Windows compilers often mix them into .text. Default values of initialized variables are stored in .data (writeable). Uninitialized variables have space reserved by .bss (writeable) when the process is set up, but do not take up any bytes in the binary on disk.

#### Is it necessary to copy all sections into memory when a binary is loaded for execution?
No. The division of the binary into sections is a convenient organization set up to be parseable by the linker. Some sections contain only data intended for the linker at link time, such as symbolic or relocation information. Much linking occurs before execution time, so some such sections do not need to be loaded into the process's virtual memory for execution - although with lazy binding, many relocations can occur *during* execution (the .plt and .got.plt sections are used for this, and do need to be loaded). Sections are organized into groups called *segments*. Segments of type PT_LOAD are intended to be loaded into memory. The executable's *program headers* describe the segments.
